1. Predicting sleep abnormalities based on user health data
   1. Dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/uom190346a/sleep-health-and-lifestyle-dataset
   2. Plan:  The dataset provides information on various individuals including sleep quality, occupation, exercise, BMI, height, age, and other health data. It also provides information on whether said individual has a sleep disorder (insomnia or sleep apnea). Using this data, I will try to find trends on possible risk factors for sleep disorders, and trends within the data. Additionally, I would like to create a machine learning model that can calculate the risk percentage of sleep disorder of user, using their health data, and using the dataset to train the model. 

   2. What are the features of a TikTok famous song?
   1. Dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sveta151/tiktok-popular-songs-2022
   2. Plan: The dataset provides a list of the most utilized and most streamed songs on TikTok during the year 2022. The dataset provides details on the genre, artists, and features of the song(wordiness, duration, acoustics, etc.). Using these features I want to explore trends within tiktok famous songs, and what it takes for a song to be tiktok famous. I would like to create a predictive model that can analyze the features of a song and predict the ability of the song to become tiktok famous. 


   3. Predicting crime rates, and crime regions in the Los Angeles area
   1. Dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/susant4learning/crime-in-los-angeles-data-from-2020-to-present
   2. Plan: The dataset includes crimes that occurred in the city of Los Angeles, from the year 2020 to now. The information includes, the area, the type of crime, victim details, perpetrator details and etc. Using this dataset, I’d like to explore trends of which areas saw the most crime, what kind of crime was the most common, and etc. Additionally, I’d like to build a predictive model that can anticipate probable crimes, or help users protect themselves in certain areas.